In this lecture, we'll be looking into some of the concepts of comptrollers in the Unreeled engine.
And we're not talking gamepad, so this will be how the interface between the player or A.I. and the
PWN classes are handled.
So we won't be going into a controllers in this section as our A.I. is going to be very simplistic and
doesn't really need a controller to handle communication between things like the blackboard system.
We will, however, be looking into some of the things that we can get the player controller to handle.
So let's get started by creating our new class.
All right, click.
In the browser and select.
Create a new C++ class.
Scroll down and locate the player control to class and select that one.
Well, then give this the name of player control to base, and I'll drop this into a new folder named
Player Comptrollers.
When the new class is finished generating, we can start implementing our new function, so the player
controller is the interface that directly receives input notifications when something is pressed.
And also what is used to enable or disable player input.
So you might have seen examples where the player porn class will cool it, owning a player controller
to enable or disable during cut scenes or things like that, for example.
And what we're going to be doing is pretty much just skipping the step of communication just by managing
that type of thing directly in the controller class.
So we're just going to have a single public section in the class and create one function of type void
named set player and able state.
Taking a single boolean argument named set player enabled other news, the C++ helper to implement this
function as usual.
And we use these set player enabled Boolean to decide what this function will do.
So if the player Saturday board is set to true, then we're going to want to get the controlled pwn
using the get point function and then call an able input.
We can take a quick look at this new function and see what arguments this is expecting to be passed
in.
So this function will allow the pwned to process input responses and is taking in a reference to its
owning player controller.
That's why it makes sense to handle this kind of logic in the player controller class.
Because now we can just pass in a reference to this as the arguments then if this isn't true.
So if the function is being called to disable the input, we'll take similar steps.
But this time will say get porn and call the disable input function again, passing in this as the reference
is pretty much the same.
Just doing the reverse of the previous function.
Now, another thing that we can control from the player controller is whether the mice's visible.
So outside of the statement we can set the B show mice cursor to be equal to the set player enabled
variable being passed in.
So this is a variable which is already housed in the player controlled class to control whether the
mice cursor is available in game.
And this is usually used and useful for toggling when you're switching between gameplay and menus.
And the reason we're going to want to be controlling the cursor here is that when you're waiting for
the start countdown, I don't want the player to be able to see the mouse cursor flicking everywhere.
But as soon as the game begins, this is going to be made visible and the player can use the cursor
point in the world to kind of gauge where to aim.
That function ready to call.
We can go over to our game mode class, and in the header I'll create a new pointer to the A player
controller base class.
Named player controller ref.
We'll also need to go to the top of the file and forward declare this so class a player controller base.
Then in the code, fall in the handle GameStop function just after we filled in our other variable references.
We'll fill our player controller reference by casting to the a player a controller base.
Using the you can play Static's.
And the function get play a controller passing in the argument this and the index zero, and you can
see this is very similar to our get play a porn that we've used just above.
So with that reference now available, we can use this in the game mode to control whether the player
input will be received at certain points of the game.
So we're going to start in the actor died function as this is the easiest part.
So if the dead actor is the tank, then we're going to handle the hiding of the porn in the player class
a little bit later.
So we know that we don't want the invisible tank to be driving around as that's gonna be a little bit
obvious due to the camera moving because we're not removing any of those components, remember?
So what we do in that case is after handling the game over function.
Check that we have a valid reference to the player controller.
And then if we do, we'll call these sets player in eight states on the player controller ref.
And set this to folks.
Next, we want to copy these lines of code and go to the handle start game function, post this below
the game start.
So as soon as we start playing, the porn movement is disabled, making us wait for the rain to count
down, time timer to end.
They're going to want to wait for the duration of the start delay and call the function again.
But set the enable state to true.
So this is slightly more complicated as we'll be using a timer that also takes in an argument to the
function call, which is something our previous time example wouldn't have been able to have accounted
for.
So in the same F check, to ensure that we're doing this only if we have a valid reference to the player
controller, we need a new effort, time to handle just like we've used in the toric class.
And we'll name this one player.
Enable handle.
Then we're also going to create our own effort time at Delegate, which our name, player and able delegates,
which is going to allow us to create a temporary you object with our function override.
So we do this by saying that it's equal to a new F time delegate.
Create your object and the function we'll be calling is in the class of the player controller ref.
We're passing in the address of the A player controller base.
I'm calling these set player enabled states.
Then finally, we can provide the override that we want to use, which would be to set the player movement
back to true in this case.
And again, this rule actually very similar to what we've done before in the porn Taric class where
we needed to confirm the function was being called in the porn class, providing the address of the
porn turret.
And the function that we wanted to call.
And we've already seen the use of delegates before, too.
So this is just another version of binding to function in a type safe way.
And it allows us to also use our function arguments.
So that means it's nearing that time again.
Your challenge now is to complete this by calling these set time a function which will need a time,
handle a time, a delegate, a float delay and a boolean for whether or not we want this to loop.
So you have all of the variables needed.
Pause the video here and try implementing our timer.
Okay, so, of course, if you did get stuck, I've hinted we're doing similar things on the turret
class, so we know from that class we need to use the get world get timer manager.
Don't set timer for the timer handle.
We have our player and able handle.
And the delegate is our player and able delegate, then our float delay may be something that we haven't
used for a while, but we can pass in our start delay float.
This ensures that we'll delay enabling the player input for the same amount of time that we decide.
We also want the start, would it countdown to show.
And finally, we don't want to keep enabling the player input so we can set the looping to false.
This will be a single fire function.
So there is an issue here that will arise due to how the pawns and controllers are handled.
Basically because we've added a call to destroy the player function for demonstration purposes, really.
This will also destroy or set the owning player controller back to a no reference or no pointer.
So if we were to compile this, we'd be destroying the pawn then also trying to call a function on the
player controller.
That may no longer exist in the game.
My reference has only wanted to demonstrate the effects of calling the destroy function on a pawn.
We can just go back over to the tank class and remove that night to avoid any of those issues cropping
up.
One final thing before moving on is that we haven't included our player controller, even though we're
calling some functions from within that on the game mode.
So at the top of the code, while inside of the game mode class, we just want to include tune tanks,
forward slash player controllers, forward slash player controller base that should not account for
all the times we'll need to provide or take away control from the player.
So if we go back over to the editor and compile this, we can check our results with that comp..
Then before we can check our new player controller, we need to create a blueprint version of this,
which I'll create in a new folder in the blueprint structure named Player Controllers.
Then if we find the C++ player controller base class right, click on this select create blueprint class
and name the new blueprint BP Underscore Player Controller.
We don't need to assign our custom blueprint, play a controller version to the project defaults, so
I'll do this by going into our game mode blueprint and setting it just here.
I'll also double check.
This has filtered through to the project's settings to ensure that this updated, which we can see,
has correctly chosen the new blueprint player controller.
So if those changes made, we can I press play and test those results.
And we can see straight away that even if we click into the window, we're completely unable to move
for the first few seconds.
And this is pretty cool.
So we now have that kind of official waiting code.
And then during the next few kind of test runs in the background, we can see when are able to hit the
winner's states and the loose state.
And then as expected during the leaves, states where remaining visible, but control is being taken
away.
So we're one step closer to having that complete kind of illusion of having the player tank destroyed,
because we now know that at the very least, when we hit the state and start hiding all of visual components,
we're not going to be able to keep moving the camera around and stuff.
There is one strange issue that I was expecting to see, and that is if we have a button pressed directional
button specifically and we're moving when we're killed, the input isn't cancelled and the pawn continues
to move around.
For the most part, though, we don't have the core mechanics in.
Am I going to start coming back through our code and improving and refining things such as this unwanted
movement and visualizing the destruction of the tanks and the turrets?